# 1 WATER LEVEL INDICATOR
# 1.1 Abstract
* We live in a world which is moving at such a fast pace that everything if automated will help us to keep our lives
going. The project on water level Indicator will help us to know when the water in our tanks is either full or empty
and automatically switch on and off the pump as and when necessary.
* By using the basic principle of ultrasonicsensors, i.e the ECHO method, we calculate the time of the ultrasonic waves 
travelling to and fro and after a few calculations the answer obtained will be the water level in the tank. By using
this concept, the water pump is switched on or off automatically when the water level falls below a certain level. 

# 1.2 Identifying Features
* It should be power saver.
  * Money saver.
  * Automatic.
  * Easy Insatllation.
* Should monitor the level of water in the tank and simultaneously switches on the water pump whenever the water level goes low in the water tank.
* By using the water level indicator we can overcome the overflow of water from the tankers.
* Time taken to produce output is less.
* LCD disaply always needs to give the current water level.
* 
# 1.3 RESEARCH
* In relation with the current framework with so much work and too less time to spare, it is very difficult to keep in
touch with the water level in the tanks. Water is essential in every hour of our lives. Hardly anyone keeps in track of
the level of water in the overhead tanks. The objective of the project is to measure the level of water in the tank and
notify the user about the water level through an SMS alert.
* This not only helps to keep the tank full but also making it more convenient for our day-to-day chores and also avoiding 
water wastage. In this project, the water is being measured by using ultrasonic sensors. Initially, the tank is considered 
to be empty. When the sound waves are transmitted in the environment, they are reflected back as ECHO. This same concept 
is applied this project. Waves generated by the ultrasonic sensors is sent to the water tank and their time of travelling 
and coming back is noted and after few calculations we can estimate the level of water in the tank

# 5W'S & 1H
# Who
* This project helps the industrial growth by reducing the number of labour work
# What
* This model heps to count the number of objects with the help of sensor and controller.
# When 
* Implemented at intial satges of making big industry
# Where
* Useful in big industries,gatherings family occasions(future scope),inport and export realted work.
# Why
* Useful becacuse it easily shows with help of lcd display how many objets are there at present.
# How
* When any object is paced when it passes the 
sensor , the counter is incremented by one and the total number of objects 
present in the store  is displayed on LCD.Microcontroller is used here to
make a securecount over a large number of objects.
# High level requirements
| id | High level requirements |
| ------------- | ------------- |
| HL1 | System should be specified towards counting the objects   |
| HL2 | Push buttons are needded to use for set or reset  |
| HL3 | The controller and sensor must be in synchronization  | 
| HL4 | System shall use 7 segment to dispaly the count  |

# Low level requirements
| Id | Low level requirements for HL1 |
| ---------------| ---------------------|
| LLR 1.1 | Prompting the user to set the counter limit and count limit reach notification |              
| LLR 1.2 | Displaying the current count and showing the last count value etc |  

| Id | Low level requirements for HL2 |
| ---------------| ---------------------|
| LLR 2.1 | Set and reset buttons are used setting the count limit | 
| LLR 2.2 | Up and down push buttons are used incresaing or decreasing                                                                                                                       value repectively | 

| Id | Low level requirements for HL3|                                                                   
| ---------------| ---------------------|                                                                 
| LLR 3.1 |  Object is paced when it passes the sensor , the counter is incremented by one count |                                                                               
| LLR 3.2 | Controller  gets the signals from the sensors and these signals are stored in ROM |

| Id |  Low level requirements for HL4 | 
| ---------------| ---------------------|
| LLR 4.1 | Display is driven by MAX 7219 IC |
| LLR 4.2 | Output should be error less |     

# SWOT ANALYSIS
# STRENGHT 
* Less human interaction .
* count limit is used by push buttons.
* easy to use.
# WEAKNESS
* Not connected to internet.
* Unable to monitor through the phone.
* Deadlines.
# OPPURTUNITIES
* Less cost.
* It consumes less power.
* Scope of this system is very huge in human automation.
# THREATS
* System won't work if power is not there.
* Best applications are avalible.
* Mainatinance.
# APPLICATIONS
* The  system is  designed to  use at  places like  laboratories  or classrooms where the intensity of crowd is intermediate. 
* The system  can  be  enhanced  by installing  industrial  IR  sensors which have better sensitivity at detecting objects at sufficient
* The data can be sent to  cloud and store it for future use. 
* The data can also be monitored live for security purposes and can be used for further IOT applications.

